README.md, before:

# 3D markerless tracking of speech movements with submillimeter accuracy

### [CoTracker](https://co-tracker.github.io/)

Credit to Meta and their CoTracker project, which this repository is based on.

## Install
Clone this repository and setup Conda within your environment.

Install necessary packages
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Guide

0. Create an empty directory, and move your left and right-angled mp4 files to this directory. Intermediate files 
   and the final output will be stored in this directory.

1. Prepare left and right-angled mp4 file videos to run CoTracker on. If the start times of the videos are not 
   already synced, then run pipeline.py to sync them. Example:
```
python pipeline.py --fps 60 --left_vid left_video.mp4 --right_vid right_video.mp4
```
2. Use grid_frames.py to extract the checkerboard frames from the videos for calibration. Example:
```
python grid_frames.py -s 10 -e 500 -l left_sync_video.mp4 -r right_sync_video.mp4
```
where -s is the first frame the checkerboard appears on, and -e is the last frame.

3. Create the calibration matrices.
4. Using ffmpeg, trim the videos to be under 10 seconds of length to make the program run faster. This can be done 
   by specifying the start and end time of the snippet. Example:
```
ffmpeg -ss 00:09:28 -to 00:09:34 -i right_video -c copy right_video_9-28_9-34.mp4
```
Or by specifying the start time in seconds and length of snippet in frames. Example:
```
ffmpeg -ss 191 -i right_video.mp4 -c:v libx264 -c:a aac -frames:v 120 right_video_191_193.mp4
```

5. Create a json file with your experiment details, and then use run_tests.py on that file to estimate the lip 
   coordinates. Example:
```
python run_tests.py -m true -f foo.json
```

Commit message:

Remove path hardcoding from calibration.py and move it to the correct directory.

README.md, after:

# 3D markerless tracking of speech movements with submillimeter accuracy

### [CoTracker](https://co-tracker.github.io/)

Credit to Meta and their CoTracker project, which this repository is based on.

## Install
Clone this repository and setup Conda within your environment.

Install necessary packages
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Guide

0. Create an empty directory, and move your left and right-angled mp4 files to this directory. Intermediate files 
   and the final output will be stored in this directory.

1. Prepare left and right-angled mp4 file videos to run CoTracker on. If the start times of the videos are not 
   already synced, then run pipeline.py to sync them. Example:
```
python pipeline.py --fps 60 --left_vid left_video.mp4 --right_vid right_video.mp4
```
2. Use grid_frames.py to extract the checkerboard frames from the videos for calibration. Example:
```
python grid_frames.py -s 10 -e 500 -l left_sync_video.mp4 -r right_sync_video.mp4
```
where -s is the first frame the checkerboard appears on, and -e is the last frame.

3. Create the calibration matrices. Example:
```
python calibration.py --rows 17 --columns 24 --scaling 15 --dir /home/user/directory/
```
Where --rows is the number of rows on the checkerboard, --columns is the number of columns, and --scaling is the world 
scaling (default is 15)
4. Using ffmpeg, trim the videos to be under 10 seconds of length to make the program run faster. This can be done 
   by specifying the start and end time of the snippet. Example:
```
ffmpeg -ss 00:09:28 -to 00:09:34 -i right_video -c copy right_video_9-28_9-34.mp4
```
Or by specifying the start time in seconds and length of snippet in frames. Example:
```
ffmpeg -ss 191 -i right_video.mp4 -c:v libx264 -c:a aac -frames:v 120 right_video_191_193.mp4
```

5. Create a json file with your experiment details, and then use run_tests.py on that file to estimate the lip 
   coordinates. Example:
```
python run_tests.py -m true -f foo.json
```
